---
creation_date: 2024-09-22
modification_date: 2024-09-22
author: Jimmy Briggs <jimmy.briggs@jimbrig.com>
tags:
  - Type/Definition
  - Topic/NA
  - Status/Complete
aliases:
  - "Program"
publish: true
permalink:
description:
image:
cssclasses:
---

# Program

## Pronunciation

- /ˈpɹoʊˌɡɹæm/
- /ˈpɹəʊɡɹæm/
- <details><summary>/ˈpɹoʊɡɹəm/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/program-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Noun

A set of structured activities.

> Our program for today’s exercise class includes swimming and jogging.

---

A leaflet listing information about a play, game or other activity.

> The program consisted of ads for restaurants and the credits of everyone connected with the play.

---

A performance of a show or other broadcast on radio or television.

> Tonight’s program was hosted by Johnny Carson.

---

A software application, or a collection of software applications, designed to perform a specific task.

> The program runs on both Linux and Microsoft Windows.

---

(especially in the phrase "get with the program") A particular mindset or method of doing things.

### Verb

To enter a program or other instructions into (a computer or other electronic device) to instruct it to do a particular task.

> He programmed the DVR to record his favorite show.

---

To develop (software) by writing program code.

> I programmed a small game as a demonstration.

---

To put together the schedule of an event.

> Mary will program Tuesday’s festivities.

---

To cause to automatically behave in a particular way.

> The lab rat was programmed to press the lever when the bell rang.



## 



***

*Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin*
