---
creation_date: 2024-09-22
modification_date: 2024-09-22
author: Jimmy Briggs <jimmy.briggs@jimbrig.com>
tags:
  - Type/Definition
  - Topic/NA
  - Status/Complete
aliases:
  - "Web"
publish: true
permalink:
description:
image:
cssclasses:
---

# Web

## Pronunciation

- <details><summary>/wɛb/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/web-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Proper Noun

The World Wide Web.

> Some of that content is now only available on the Web.

### Noun

The silken structure which a spider builds using silk secreted from the spinnerets at the caudal tip of its abdomen; a spiderweb.

> The sunlight glistened in the dew on the web.

---

(by extension) Any interconnected set of persons, places, or things, which when diagrammed resembles a spider's web.

---

(sometimes capitalized) Specifically, the World Wide Web.

> Let me search the web for that.

---

The part of a baseball mitt between the forefinger and thumb, the webbing.

> He caught the ball in the web.

---

A latticed or woven structure.

> The gazebo's roof was a web made of thin strips of wood.

---

(usually with "spin", "weave", or similar verbs) A tall tale with more complexity than a myth or legend.

> Careful—she knows how to spin a good web, but don't lean too hard on what she says.

yarn

---

A plot or scheme.

---

The interconnection between flanges in structural members, increasing the effective lever arm and so the load capacity of the member.

---

The thinner vertical section of a railway rail between the top (head) and bottom (foot) of the rail.

---

A fold of tissue connecting the toes of certain birds, or of other animals.

---

The series of barbs implanted on each side of the shaft of a feather, whether stiff and united together by barbules, as in ordinary feathers, or soft and separate, as in downy feathers.

---

A continuous strip of material carried by rollers during processing.

---

(lithography) A long sheet of paper which is fed from a roll into a printing press, as opposed to individual sheets of paper.

---

A band of webbing used to regulate the extension of the hood of a carriage.

---

A thin metal sheet, plate, or strip, as of lead.

---

A major broadcasting network.

### Verb

To construct or form a web.

---

To cover with a web or network.

---

To ensnare or entangle.

---

To provide with a web.

---

To weave.



## 



***

*Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin*
