---
creation_date: 2024-09-22
modification_date: 2024-09-22
author: Jimmy Briggs <jimmy.briggs@jimbrig.com>
tags:
  - Type/Definition
  - Topic/NA
  - Status/Complete
aliases:
  - "Protocol"
publish: true
permalink:
description:
image:
cssclasses:
---

# Protocol

## Pronunciation

- /ˈpɹəʊtəˌkɒl/
- /ˈpɹoʊtəˌkoʊl/

## Meanings

### Noun

The minutes, or official record, of a negotiation or transaction; especially a document drawn up officially which forms the legal basis for subsequent agreements based on it.

---

An official record of a diplomatic meeting or negotiation; later specifically, a draft document setting out agreements to be signed into force by a subsequent formal treaty.

---

An amendment to an official treaty.

---

The first leaf of a roll of papyrus, or the official mark typically found on such a page.

---

The official formulas which appeared at the beginning or end of certain official documents such as charters, papal bulls etc.

---

The original notes of observations made during an experiment; also, the precise method for carrying out or reproducing a given experiment.

---

The official rules and guidelines for heads of state and other dignitaries, governing accepted behaviour in relations with other diplomatic representatives or over affairs of state.

---

(by extension) An accepted code of conduct; acceptable behaviour in a given situation or group.

---

A set of formal rules describing how to transmit or exchange data, especially across a network.

---

The set of instructions allowing a licensed medical professional to start, modify, or stop a medical or patient care order.

### Verb

To make a protocol of.

---

To make or write protocols, or first drafts; to issue protocols.



## 



***

*Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin*
