---
creation_date: 2024-09-22
modification_date: 2024-09-22
author: Jimmy Briggs <jimmy.briggs@jimbrig.com>
tags:
  - Type/Definition
  - Topic/NA
  - Status/Complete
aliases:
  - "Extension"
publish: true
permalink:
description:
image:
cssclasses:
---

# Extension

## Pronunciation

- <details><summary>/ɪkˈstɛnʃən/</summary><audio controls><source src="https://api.dictionaryapi.dev/media/pronunciations/en/extension-us.mp3"></audio></details>

## Meanings

### Noun

The act of extending; a stretching out; enlargement in length or breadth; an increase

---

The state of being extended

---

That property of a body by which it occupies a portion of space (or time, e.g. "spatiotemporal extension")

---

A part of a building that has been extended from the original

---

Capacity of a concept or general term to include a greater or smaller number of objects; — correlative of intension.

---

A written engagement on the part of a creditor, allowing a debtor further time to pay a debt.

---

The operation of stretching a broken bone so as to bring the fragments into the same straight line.

---

An exercise in which an arm or leg is straightened against resistance.

---

A simple offensive action, consisting of extending the weapon arm forward.

---

A numerical code used to specify a specific telephone in a telecommunication network.

---

A file extension.

> Files with the .txt extension usually contain text.

---

An optional software component that adds functionality to an application.

> a browser extension

---

The set of tuples of values that, used as arguments, satisfy the predicate.

---

(grammar) A kind of derivative morpheme applied to verbs in Bantu languages.



## 



***

*Autogenerated by Obsidian Dictionary Plugin*
